If you access the login to our demo application,
Spring adds a session cookie named JSESSION_ID.
As you can see, it's for our localhost domain to the root path,
and the expiry is set to Session,
which means that it's active until the browser session is aligned.
That basically means until the user closes their browser.
Now, to allow the user to stay logged in between sessions,
Spring supports rememberMe, and it has its own builder method.
You can check out my previous course where I go into the
details about it and how to set it up.
But for this course,
the whole point of outsourcing authentication to Keycloak using OpenID
Connect and OAuth was so that our client app doesn't have to deal with
that and for all that to be managed centrally,
not at every application or service.
So let's log into the Keycloak admin console.
Now, under Login, select Remember Me, Save, job done.
Now, let's close and reopen our browser.
Now, Keycloak gives us the Remember Me checkbox.
If you select it, and log in, and close and restart your browser,
this time, if you access crypto‑portfolio,
you're still logged in and you don't have to re‑enter your credentials.
If you inspect the cookies,
you can see that we actually have a new Spring Security session,
so reauthentication took place.
And if we look at the Network tab,
you can actually see the authorization code flow being triggered.
Now, to achieve this, Keycloak added a new REMEMBER_ME cookie.
This cookie is not a session cookie,
so it doesn't disappear after the browser is closed.
It does, however, have an expiry,
and the duration can be tweaked via the console.
Now, if you had enabled Remember Me in the Spring Security configuration,
Spring would have added a similar REMEMBER_ME cookie.
Now, for the user, it would have seemed transparent.
They would have just remained logged into the application; however,
if we did it via Spring and then the user was deactivated or
their session was terminated with Keycloak,
the user would still have access to crypto‑portfolio until
the Spring REMEMBER_ME cookie expires.
So that's something to think about,
whereas if we drive it via Keycloak and we terminate the session at Keycloak,
we can prevent reauthentication with the REMEMBER_ME the cookie taking place.
Again, every application is different, just think about your bank.
Generally,
the session terminates after only 5 or 10 minutes of inactivity or your
level of access is downgraded and you require reauthentication for any
sensitive acts like transferring funds, etc.
So it's important to treat reauthentication via Remember
Me with more scrutiny in some cases. Next, let's look at tokens.